PowerCommands 1.1 for Visual Studio 2008
2008-07-29T15:03:02
Not sure how this one got by me but there is a cool set of extensions for Visual Studio 2008 available on [MSDN](http://code.msdn.microsoft.com/PowerCommands).

> PowerCommands 1.1 is a set of useful extensions for the Visual Studio 2008 adding additional functionality to various areas of the IDE. The source code is included and requires the VS SDK for VS 2008 to allow modification of functionality or as a reference to create additional custom PowerCommand extensions.

Some of the features include:

> **Enable/Disable PowerCommands in Options dialog**
> 
> This feature allows you to select which commands to enable in the Visual Studio IDE. Point to the **Tools** menu, then click **Options**. Expand the **PowerCommands** options, then click **Commands**. Check the commands you would like to enable.   
_Note: All power commands are initially defaulted Enabled._
> 
> **Format document on save / Remove and Sort Usings on save**
> 
> The **Format document on save** option formats the tabs, spaces, and so on of the document being saved. It is equivalent to pointing to the **Edit** menu, clicking **Advanced**, and then clicking **Format Document**. 
> 
> The **Remove and sort usings** option removes unused **using** statements and sorts the remaining **using** statements in the document being saved. 
> 
> **Clear All Panes**
> 
> This command clears all output panes. It can be executed from the button on the toolbar of the **Output** window. 
> 
> **Copy Path**
> 
> This command copies the full path of the currently selected item to the clipboard. It can be executed by right-clicking one of these nodes in the Solution Explorer: 
> 
>   * The solution node. 
>   * A project node. 
>   * Any project item node. 
>   * Any folder. 
> 
> **Email CodeSnippet**
> 
> To email the lines of text you select in the code editor, right-click anywhere in the editor and then click **Email CodeSnippet**. 
> 
> **Insert Guid Attribute**
> 
> This command adds a Guid attribute to a selected class. From the code editor, right-click anywhere within the class definition, then click **Insert Guid Attribute**. 
> 
> **Show All Files**
> 
> This command shows the hidden files in all projects displayed in the **Solution Explorer** when the solution node is selected. It enhances the **Show All Files** button, which normally shows only the hidden files in the selected project node. 
> 
> **Undo Close**
> 
> This command reopens a closed document , returning the cursor to its last position. To reopen the most recently closed document, point to the **Edit** menu, then click **Undo Close**. Alternately, you can use the Ctrl+Shift+Z shortcut. 

If you're a [Coderush](http://www.devexpress.com/Products/Visual_Studio_Add-in/Coding_Assistance/) or [Refactor](http://www.devexpress.com/Products/Visual_Studio_Add-in/Refactoring/) user then you already have these features. For the rest of us it's a nice freebie. 
