ESET NOD32
2008-03-05T14:21:02
I'm trying something a little different with the Web site. The new design is intentionally plain and focuses on content. I've also continue to **remove** advertisements as I learn what works and where. The goal of the ads is to generate enough revenue to pay for the hosting and a few software goodies like compilers and profilers. As I stated in my [About](http://mike-ward.net/about) page, Blue Onion Software is a personal project where I get to experiment and express myself.

Google Adsense is an easy way to create revenue for a site. It does however have some problems in that you don't get to control what you advertise. For the most part, Google has good taste in the ads it selects for my site so I can't complain.

I'm trying something new here by dipping a toe into affiliate advertising. Here, I can be a more selective. I've blogged about [NOD32 previously](/blog/post/2006/10/31/day-of-the-virus). It's a great program and one of the few packages I'm willing to pay money to license. I've tried the free alternatives out there and frankly, they just don't work as well for me as NOD32. AV Comparatives hailed NOD32 as the Best Antivirus Product of 2006 and 2007.

Other facts:

  * **Proactive**—Fueled by ThreatSense(R), it proactively catches both known and unknown malware; most other products leave you vulnerable as they leave you waiting for a signature update. 
  * **Precise**—It has received 48 Virus Bulletin VB100 awards (more than any other vendor) and has not missed an “In the Wild” virus in Virus Bulletin’s testing since May 1998. It was also the only product to generate _zero_ false positives in AV-Comparatives’ November 2007 test.
  * **Lightweight**—It takes up less space on your system than the competition, allowing you to do what you want to do with fewer interruptions.
  * **Fast**—It consistently wins awards for the fastest performance of any antivirus application.

If you're in the market for antivirus software, consider NOD32. And if you do decide purchase, consider clicking on the NOD32 ad on this site and help keep the lights on here at BOS.
