Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0 - Release Candidate 1
2006-09-09T14:48:33
Time flies. Last November witnessed the release of .Net 2.0. I attended the PDC (Professional Developer's Conference) in September 2005 and saw all the 3.0 goodies. I thought it would be a lifetime before I saw them, but now here it is less than a year later and we have RC1. There are some really amazing new things in .Net 3.0. If you have not looked at LINQ (Language Integrated Query) do take the time. Some of my colleagues have already dismissed it thinking it will be some complicated, slow and almost useful feature but that's because they have not taken the time to examine it closely. I'm sure you won't make the same mistake.

> The Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0 (formerly known as WinFX), is the new managed code programming model for Windows. It combines the power of the .NET Framework 2.0 with new technologies for building applications that have visually compelling user experiences, seamless communication across technology boundaries, and the ability to support a wide range of business processes. These new technologies are Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Communication Foundation, Windows Workflow Foundation, and Windows CardSpace (formerly code named "Infocard"). Microsoft plans to ship .NET Framework 3.0 as part of the Windows Vista operating system. In addition, Microsoft is making these technologies available on Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. The following Community Technology Preview of .NET Framework 3.0 enables you to continue experimenting with early builds of these technologies, get acquainted with the development experience, and provide feedback to Microsoft. For more information on these technologies, click [here](http://msdn.microsoft.com/winfx/technologies/default.aspx). 
